 Why you should learn Algorithms and Data structures as you are a Front-End Developer?

    A few years ago, I wanted to be a Front-End Developer and I asked some experienced web developers. Should I study Algorithm and Data structures to be a Front-End Developer?

    Unfortunately, the response was “No you do not need it you need to learn some basics of HTML5 and CSS3 and JavaScript that is enough”, but in fact, that’s the wrong answer I will clarify later. Based on what they said I followed the advice and started creating some web pages after studying HTML5, CSS3, and JAVASCRIPT along with overcoming some programming challenges with JS, some of them was simple for me and the rest were complicated, but when I looked at the solution of the problem and I read the source code I said: I can do so. It’s easy, why I struggled and got stuck to solve the challenges. Frankly speaking, I was in lack of logic and the process of solving problems. Besides, I always when I faced that situation, I am fed up and I feel frustrated, so I ask other developers, if that happened to them and how to cope with it... and so one. However, before I studied Algorithm and Data structures with JS I tried to solve a simple problem which is palindrome words when it comes to the solution I solved the problem randomly, but I was not aware of this kind of problem at least you should have basic knowledge of lists and how they work especially Stacks (in that case). I did not stop at this point I kept searching on google about how to be a problem solver. I found a huge amount of advice. Also, among those pieces of advice, I have read a story of someone who had the same case that I struggled then I figured out It was important to study Algorithms to solve problems and grasp the process behind the scenes very well. Depending on what he said I considered his advice. After three months of reading Algorithms and Data structures with JS books, I made much progress in both critical thinking and problem solving, even though I need a lot to achieve my goal, but that made me feel satisfied at the beginning to continue and not get lost.

    In conclusion, what I am trying to say is: I highly recommend starting leaning Algo and DS along with Programming language otherwise you feel bored during your journey of learning Algo. For example, you can buy a book such as Algorithm and Data structures with JS. When you ask developers you should know whom you are asking because the developers come from different backgrounds, i.e you may find an academic developer and no academic one. Therefore, the answer will be different, maybe affect your learning path or add value in it as well as I cannot imagine learning programming without Algo whether you are front-end or back end. Where there is a logic in programming, there are algorithms and Data structures.

Eventually, I hope this article will be helpful, and thanks for reading it.

by - Suni kumar
